So let's get started
with some Standard Libraries.
And for that, I'm actually going to work with
the HTTP library.
That library will help us with spinning up a web server,
and actually here in the docs of the library,
we have some dummy code for doing that.
So in the end, we're just going to replicate that code,
but I'm going to explain what's happening here.
Now we see one important difference to note right away
and that's the import syntax.
Now, I don't just mean the import from syntax,
which differs from the const require import syntax
we used throughout this course,
but I also mean, from where we are importing.
That's a URL.
As you learned, Node does support the import from syntax.
I do cover that in the modern JavaScript
with Node core section.
But what Node doesn't support, are URL imports.
Where we don't import from a local file or a module,
but where we instead point at a file on another server
to import that file.
And that's something Deno does.
Deno wants you to use such imports.
The idea with Deno is not that you download everything
you're going to use in your project and store it locally,
but then instead, you can import from any JavaScript
or TypeScript file on any server
and start using those exported features in your files.
This is a core philosophy of Deno
and that's, of course quite different to Node.
So therefore, here, if we want to use this standard library,
the HTTP library, and from that library,
the serve function exported from the server.ts file,
then we have to go into our app.ts file
and add this code in here.
And this will then do just that.
It will import a function from this remote file,
and of course you can only import what's exported
if we dive into the server.ts file though,
we see that if we search for serve,
If we search long enough, at least
we have the exported serve function here,
because it's exported here,
we can import it with this code.
So, this is how we import and we don't need to download
or NPM install this, it's also not built into Deno
so it's also not like the file system module,
which comes with Node.
Instead, it simply sits on another server
and this is how we import it.
Now serve is then a function
that allows us to spin up a HTTP server.
And we spin up that server by calling serve,
and then through serve, we pass an object to configure it
and in this object, we can, for example,
specify the port on which we wanna listen.
And here for development, we could do this on port 3000.
We do this with the port property in this object.
Now server then returns a server,
which we can store in a constant.
And now this server,
of course could have incoming requests.
In Node.js, we would now specify a callback function
that executes for every incoming request.
Deno instead embraces modern JavaScript features
for all its core capabilities,
and the server is no exception.
In this example, snippet,
we see how we listen to incoming requests in Deno
with this strange construct here.
Now for await of,
is a JavaScript feature,
it's not Deno exclusive.
Instead, it's a JavaScript feature called async iterable
Server, is this so called asynchronous iterable,
which simply means it's like an array full of promises
and it's an infinite array basically.
So this server generates new promises
which we can await like this,
and the new promise,
which then resolves, is generated
for every incoming request.
That's what server does under the hood, the Deno server.
And you could build this entirely with vanilla JavaScript
async iterables are vanilla JavaScript.
Attached, you'll find a link to the MDN documentation
for async iterables, in case you're interested
in learning a bit more about them.
So, if I copy this code here,
into my app.ts file, we'll execute this code
for every incoming request.
And this is just a Deno's way of sending back a response
on the request object which is generated
for every incoming request.
We got a respond method,
which wants an object, where we can specify a body
for the response, which will be sent back by Deno.
So this is how we listen to requests,
then do whatever we wanna do, and then respond back.
And one noteworthy thing here,
is that we have await here, on the top level like this.
This is not wrapped in any asynchronous function
as you often needed in Avro code,
instead Deno out of the box supports top level await.
So that you can use the await keyword
outside of asynchronous functions.
In modern versions of Node.js,
this is also supported though,
so that's not really a key difference.
Well, with that, if we save this,
if I now run this file with Deno run app.ts,
it compiles and it will ultimately crash,
but before it crashes,
you see it downloads a bunch of things.
And that happens because of this import.
Whenever you import from a URL like this,
when you execute the code,
Deno goes ahead and reaches out to that server
and downloads that file
and of course, also dependencies of that file.
So, all other files which are imported by that file
and it downloads those files to your local machine,
and caches them locally.
so that when you run the script thereafter,
it doesn't have to re-download them
simply to speed up execution time,
and to make sure it doesn't exhaust all your bandwidth.
With this approach, you can also develop on a plane,
assuming that you did pre-download all the files
you'll eventually need.
Now, after it did all that, it crashes however,
and it again crashes because of a permission error
that network access was denied.
And this makes sense because I mentioned
that as part of Deno's permission model
some things, like writing or reading to files,
but also network requests are blocked by default.
And of course here, we wanna open up a server
that has something to do with the network,
and therefore it's blocked.
So, to make sure that this code works,
I now have to run app.ts,
with an extra permission flag
but here it's now, not allow write,
because I'm not trying to write to any file
instead, it's allow net and that's the permission flag
for granting network permissions.
And if I now hit enter, this executes the file
with those proper permissions,
and therefor now, we can open up localhost 3000
in the browser, and we see "Hello world there"
which is the response we're sending back.
And this is now also a process that keeps on running
just like a Node server does,
until we quit it with Ctrl + C,
because of course it keeps on listening for requests.
We don't want this process to finish,
it should keep on listening,
and that's just what it does.
Now, just as before, to have that side by side comparison,
let's see how we would spin up a similar server, with Node.
For that I'm going to quit it here,
and now again, going to write some Node code.
Feel free to do this on your own first,
we'll do it together thereafter.